<pre>
  BIP: ?
  Layer: Consensus (soft fork)
  Title: Post-Quantum Signature Commitments
  Author: Ed Tubbs <ectubbs@gmail.com>
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2026-02-18
  License: BSD-3-Clause
</pre>

==Introduction==

===Abstract===

This document proposes a staged path for introducing post-quantum (PQ) signature support.
In the initial stage, a PQ signature commitment is embedded in transaction outputs using a canonical OP_RETURN pattern to enable immediate interoperability and chain-level observability without a consensus change.
In a later stage, this proposal is intended to migrate from OP_RETURN commitments to a dedicated reserved opcode path (for example via OP_SUCCESSx-based soft fork design), enabling native script-level validation semantics and stronger on-chain composability.

The current implementation focus is Falcon-512, Dilithium2, and Raccoon-G-44 commitment publication and SPV-side commitment validation during block scan.
This document is written in standard BIP format and can be adapted to a DIP process if/when a formal DIP track is preferred.

===Copyright===

This BIP is licensed under the BSD 3-clause license.

===Motivation===

Bitcoin-family systems require a migration strategy for post-quantum cryptographic primitives that:

# works with existing transaction relay and wallet infrastructure;
# is deployable before introducing new consensus opcodes; and
# supports incremental hardening from commitment-only publication toward full script validation semantics.

An OP_RETURN commitment-first model provides a low-friction deployment mechanism while ecosystem tooling matures.
A reserved-opcode follow-up provides a path toward first-class script integration once consensus and implementation readiness are established.

===Rationale===

The design is intentionally staged:

* '''Phase 1 (Now):''' publish a 32-byte commitment (derived from PQ verification material) in canonical OP_RETURN form.
* '''Phase 2 (Future):''' define and activate a dedicated script opcode path to validate PQ signatures in script execution, replacing commitment-only signaling.

This balances deployability and safety:

* avoids immediate consensus risk;
* enables ecosystem measurement and operational validation via tooling (including SPV scanning); and
* creates a clean upgrade target for native script verification.

This direction is related to broader PQ discussions, including BIP 360, but is focused here on practical incremental deployment of signature commitments and an explicit migration path to opcode-based verification.

==Specification==

===Phase 1: OP_RETURN Commitment Encoding===

For Phase 1, PQ commitments are encoded in outputs using canonical tagged script form.
Current libdogecoin tagged variants are:

<source>
Falcon-512:  0x6a 0x24 0x464c4331 <32-byte-commitment>   ; "FLC1"
Dilithium2:  0x6a 0x24 0x44494c32 <32-byte-commitment>   ; "DIL2"
Raccoon-G:   0x6a 0x24 0x52434734 <32-byte-commitment>   ; "RCG4"
</source>

Where:

* <code>0x6a</code> is OP_RETURN
* <code>0x24</code> is push-36
* <code>0x464c4331</code> is the Falcon identifier (<code>"FLC1"</code> in ASCII)
* <code>0x44494c32</code> is the Dilithium2 identifier (<code>"DIL2"</code> in ASCII)
* <code>0x52434734</code> is the Raccoon-G-44 identifier (<code>"RCG4"</code> in ASCII)
* payload is exactly 4-byte tag + 32-byte commitment

Non-canonical encodings are invalid for commitment interpretation under this proposal.

For implementation namespace clarity, libdogecoin defines identifier constants:

<source>
DOGECOIN_PQC_FALCON_TAG = "FLC1"
DOGECOIN_PQC_DILITHIUM_TAG = "DIL2"
DOGECOIN_PQC_RACCOON_TAG = "RCG4"
</source>

Current consensus-neutral Phase 1 interoperability in this proposal remains canonical tagged <code>OP_RETURN 0x24 <tag4> <32-byte-commitment></code>.

Commitment derivation for Falcon-512 and Dilithium2 stage implementations is:

<source>
commitment32 = SHA256(public_key_bytes || signature_bytes)
</source>

Phase 1 does '''not''' standardize a new on-chain wire format for full PQ public keys or signatures.
Those artifacts remain off-chain verifier material; only the tagged 32-byte commitment is committed on-chain.

===Phase 1: Signature Payload (Transaction Binding)===

To support transaction-level validation workflows, the PQ signature payload SHOULD be the transaction signature hash (<code>sighash32</code>) for the input being authorized, not an arbitrary application message.

In practical terms, verifiers and signers should use:

<source>
message32 = dogecoin_tx_sighash32(tx, scriptPubKey, input_index, hash_type)
signature = PQ_SIGN(secret_key, message32)
commitment32 = SHA256(public_key_bytes || signature_bytes)
</source>

This keeps Phase 1 commitment publication consensus-neutral while still binding the off-chain PQ proof to a concrete transaction authorization digest.

===Phase 1: On-chain PQ Verification Material via P2SH Data Carrier Outputs===

Dogecoin does not support SegWit witness relay, and extra pushes in a P2PKH spending input scriptSig are non-standard under current relay policy.

The canonical Phase 1 mechanism is the small tagged OP_RETURN commitment.

A standard P2SH data-carrier pattern (TX_C + TX_R) MAY be used to publish full PQ verification material on-chain, but is OPTIONAL and subject to standard relay limits.

Implementations MUST NOT assume that full PQ verification material is present on-chain.

The P2SH carrier reveal MUST only be used when the encoded <code>public_key || signature</code> payload fits within standard transaction policy limits (including maximum push size and scriptSig size constraints).

====Phase 1: Commitment Output====

The commitment output remains canonical tagged OP_RETURN:

<source>
Falcon-512:  0x6a 0x24 0x464c4331 <32-byte-commitment>   ; "FLC1"
Dilithium2:  0x6a 0x24 0x44494c32 <32-byte-commitment>   ; "DIL2"
Raccoon-G:   0x6a 0x24 0x52434734 <32-byte-commitment>   ; "RCG4"
</source>

Commitment derivation:

<source>
commitment32 = SHA256(public_key_bytes || signature_bytes)
</source>

====Phase 1: Transaction Binding====

The PQ signature payload SHOULD be the per-input transaction signature hash:

<source>
message32 = dogecoin_tx_sighash32(TX_BASE, scriptPubKey, input_index, hash_type)
signature = PQ_SIGN(secret_key, message32)
commitment32 = SHA256(public_key_bytes || signature_bytes)
</source>

Where TX_BASE is the base transaction template used for signing, before the OP_RETURN commitment output and any P2SH carrier outputs are appended (to avoid circular dependency). In carrier mode, the carrier cost is deducted from the first output during TX_C construction; verifiers must reverse this adjustment when reconstructing TX_BASE from TX_C.

====Phase 1: P2SH Carrier Outputs in TX_C====

TX_C creates one or more P2SH outputs that will later be spent to reveal the full PQ material:

<source>
scriptPubKey = OP_HASH160 <HASH160(redeemScript_carrier)> OP_EQUAL
</source>

The carrier redeemScript is intentionally small and standard. It exists only to clean the stack and return true. This allows the reveal tx scriptSig to carry data as pure pushes while still satisfying clean-stack policy.

Constraints that matter for standardness include:

* The pushed redeemScript is limited in size (520 bytes) and must execute to a single true stack element (clean stack).
* Individual pushed stack elements are limited (520 bytes), so PQ material must be chunked into <=520-byte pieces.

libdogecoin canonical carrier uses a fixed number of data pushes per input (three), giving about 1560 bytes of usable payload per carrier spend input (plus small headers).

====Phase 1: Reveal scriptSig format in TX_R====

TX_R spends each carrier output and reveals PQ material in push-only scriptSig, followed by the 6-byte redeemScript:

<source>
scriptSig pushes (push-only):
  <TAG8> <HDR8> <CHUNK0> <CHUNK1> <CHUNK2> <redeemScript_carrier>

TAG8:
  "FLC1FULL" | "DIL2FULL" | "RCG4FULL"

HDR8 (8 bytes):
  [0] version = 0x01
  [1] part_index (0..part_total-1)
  [2] part_total
  [3] reserved = 0x00
  [4..5] pk_len (big-endian uint16)
  [6..7] full_len (big-endian uint16)

Payload:
  The concatenation FULL = pubkey_bytes || signature_bytes is split into parts.
  Each part is carried in up to three <=520-byte CHUNK pushes.
  Empty chunks are encoded as OP_0 pushes.

redeemScript_carrier:
  OP_DROP repeated 5 times (TAG8,HDR8,CHUNK0,CHUNK1,CHUNK2), then OP_TRUE.
</source>

====Phase 1: Verification using on-chain data only====

Given TX_R:

# Parse each carrier spend input scriptSig, extract (TAG8,HDR8,CHUNKS), reconstruct FULL by ordering parts.
# Split FULL into pk and sig using pk_len.
# Recompute commitment32 = SHA256(pk || sig) and match it against TX_C canonical tagged OP_RETURN.
# Compute message32 = dogecoin_tx_sighash32(TX_BASE, ...) per this proposal and verify PQ signature over message32. TX_BASE is reconstructed from TX_C by removing the OP_RETURN commitment output and all P2SH carrier outputs, then restoring the total carrier value to the first output.

This yields a fully on-chain verifiable Phase 1 proof without SegWit, and without non-standard extra pushes in a P2PKH spending input.

===Phase 1: Base Transaction Binding===

Because the OP_RETURN commitment payload is itself derived from the PQ signature, implementers must avoid circular dependency between:

* the digest being signed; and
* the final transaction bytes carrying the commitment output.

The implementation model in this proposal is:

# derive <code>message32</code> from a deterministic '''base transaction template''' (before commitment output is appended),
# PQ-sign <code>message32</code>,
# derive commitment32 from <code>pubkey || signature</code>,
# append canonical tagged OP_RETURN commitment output, and
# produce final spend-authorized transaction with existing secp signing path.

This means PQC proof is bound to the base transaction template context, while on-chain publication is anchored in the final committed transaction.

Current libdogecoin behavior is compatible with this model:

* PQ sign APIs/CLI sign raw message bytes (<code>-x</code>), allowing callers to provide transaction sighash bytes directly.
* Existing secp signing flow in <code>such -c sign</code> is implemented via <code>dogecoin_tx_sign_input(...)</code> (ECC-backed), which internally uses the transaction sighash for authorization.
* PQC transaction-binding workflows should use <code>dogecoin_tx_sighash32(...)</code> to derive that same per-input transaction-digest context, then publish the PQ commitment in OP_RETURN.
* SPV Phase 1 still validates canonical commitment encoding only; full signature verification remains an off-chain verifier responsibility.

Raccoon-G-44 additionally supports BIP32-style HD derivation in the current implementation:

* private-child derivation (<code>CKDpriv</code>-style) supports hardened and non-hardened index paths;
* public-child derivation (<code>CKDpub</code>-style) supports non-hardened paths only; and
* derivation paths require explicit chaincode input and deterministic index handling.

Implementations MAY support additional PQ schemes in future revisions, but MUST preserve canonical on-chain encoding rules.

===Phase 1: SPV Validation Behavior===

SPV implementations should:

* parse transactions in scanned blocks;
* detect canonical tagged Falcon, Dilithium2, and Raccoon-G commitment scripts;
* treat only canonical encodings as valid commitments;
* surface deterministic commitment logs/telemetry for downstream verification workflows; and
* when carrier-mode P2SH data is present, perform on-chain commitment validation by extracting the PQC public key and signature from the TX_R scriptSig and recomputing <code>SHA256(pk || sig)</code> to match against the TX_C OP_RETURN commitment.

====SPV Commitment Validation Sources====

SPV commitment detection operates in two modes depending on how PQ material is published:

# '''Commitment-only:''' The commitment is detected in the OP_RETURN output. No PQ verification material is available on-chain. Log entry includes <code>source=commitment_only</code>.
# '''Cross-TX P2SH carrier (TX_C + TX_R):''' The commitment OP_RETURN is in TX_C, and the full PQ public key + signature are revealed in TX_R's carrier scriptSig spending the P2SH outputs. Supported for all three algorithms (Falcon-512 via <code>FLC1FULL</code>, Dilithium2 via <code>DIL2FULL</code>, Raccoon-G via <code>RCG4FULL</code>). The SPV scanner extracts pk and sig from the carrier-tagged scriptSig, recomputes <code>SHA256(pk || sig)</code>, and matches against buffered OP_RETURN commitments from the same block. Log entry includes <code>source=carrier_scriptsig matched_txc_txpos=... pk_len=... sig_len=... pk_prefix=... sig_prefix=...</code>.

In all validated cases, the log emits the algorithm label (e.g. <code>[falcon-commit]</code>), block height, transaction position, the 32-byte commitment hex, and the validation source.

====SPV Carrier Commitment Validation Algorithm====

Given a TX_R with carrier-tagged scriptSig(s):

# For each vin, attempt to parse its scriptSig using <code>dogecoin_pqc_carrier_parse_part_scriptsig()</code> to extract the 8-byte tag, part metadata (part_index, part_total, pk_len, full_len), and raw payload chunk.
# Identify the PQC algorithm from the 8-byte tag: <code>FLC1FULL</code> (Falcon-512), <code>DIL2FULL</code> (Dilithium2), or <code>RCG4FULL</code> (Raccoon-G-44).
# '''Multi-part reassembly:''' if <code>part_total > 1</code>, collect payload chunks from all matching carrier-tagged vins indexed by <code>part_index</code> (0 to part_total-1), then concatenate in order. Truncate the result to <code>full_len</code> bytes. For Falcon-512 (1 part), the single vin payload is used directly. For Dilithium2 (3 parts) and Raccoon-G-44 (24 parts), the reassembly is required.
# Split the reassembled payload FULL into public key (<code>pk_len</code> bytes) and signature (remaining bytes): <code>pk = FULL[0..pk_len)</code>, <code>sig = FULL[pk_len..full_len)</code>.
# Recompute <code>commitment32 = SHA256(pk || sig)</code> using the algorithm-specific commit function.
# Cross-validate: match the recomputed commitment against buffered OP_RETURN commitments from TX_C transactions in the same block. If matched, report <code>matched_txc_txpos</code> identifying the originating commitment transaction.
# Log the validation result including pk_len, sig_len, and hex prefixes of pk and sig for diagnostic purposes.

====Algorithm Carrier Sizes====

{|
! Algorithm !! pk_len !! sig_len !! full_len !! part_total !! Carrier Tag
|-
| Falcon-512 || 897 || ~690 || ~1587 || 1 || <code>FLC1FULL</code>
|-
| Dilithium2 || 1312 || 2420 || 3732 || 3 || <code>DIL2FULL</code>
|-
| Raccoon-G-44 || 16144 || 20768 || 36912 || 24 || <code>RCG4FULL</code>
|}

Each carrier vin scriptSig carries up to 3 chunks of ≤520 bytes (~1560 bytes of payload per part).

====Transaction Fee Guidance====

For carrier mode transactions:

* '''TX_C''' (commitment + carrier outputs): minimum relay fee is 100000 koinu (0.001 DOGE), matching Dogecoin's default <code>minrelaytxfee</code>.
* '''TX_R''' (reveal, spending carrier outputs): minimum relay fee scales with transaction size. Since TX_R scriptSigs carry full PQ material, the fee must satisfy the per-KB minimum relay rate (100000 koinu/KB) and should include sufficient margin for miner inclusion. Examples: Falcon-512 TX_R (~1675 bytes, 1 carrier vin) needs ~2000000 koinu (0.02 DOGE); Dilithium2 TX_R (~5 KB, 3 carrier vins) needs ~10000000 koinu (0.1 DOGE); Raccoon-G-44 TX_R (~39 KB, 24 carrier vins) needs ~100000000 koinu (1.0 DOGE).
* '''Carrier output value:''' each P2SH carrier output must be at least 100000000 koinu (1 DOGE). Values at or above 1 DOGE per output ensure the carrier UTXO set is accepted by relay nodes and provide sufficient funding for the TX_R fee when spent.

===Phase 2: Reserved Opcode Upgrade Path===

This proposal reserves a follow-up soft-fork design track to migrate from OP_RETURN signaling to native script validation semantics using a reserved opcode approach.
The Phase 2 document is expected to define:

* exact opcode assignment path;
* script format for PQ verification data;
* script evaluation and failure semantics; and
* activation/deployment process.

===Signature Transition Model (secp256k1 -> PQC)===

This proposal is intentionally transitional:

* '''Current implementation state (Phase 1):''' transactions remain spend-authorized by existing secp256k1 script rules; PQC signatures are published/committed as parallel evidence.
* '''Target state (Phase 2):''' script execution validates PQC signatures directly (via reserved-opcode soft-fork path), allowing migration away from secp256k1-only authorization.

In Phase 1, PQC commitments should be treated as an interoperability and migration bridge:

# Build transaction and derive per-input <code>sighash32</code>.
# Sign <code>sighash32</code> with Falcon-512 or Dilithium2.
# Publish <code>SHA256(pubkey || signature)</code> in canonical tagged OP_RETURN.
# Publish full PQ verification material on-chain via the P2SH carrier (TX_C + TX_R).

This mirrors current implementation behavior:

* <code>such</code> exposes PQ sign/verify/commit commands and commitment-output append commands.
* Raccoon-G tooling includes HD child derivation commands for private (hardened/non-hardened) and public (non-hardened) paths.
* PQ sign/verify command payload (<code>-x</code>) accepts transaction sighash bytes.
* SPV commitment detection validates canonical encoding and emits deterministic commitment logs.

Until Phase 2 activation, secp256k1 consensus checks remain authoritative for spend validity; PQC signature checks are verifier-side and policy/audit driven.

==Backwards Compatibility==

Phase 1 is backward-compatible because OP_RETURN outputs are already standard and spendability semantics are unchanged.
Legacy nodes continue to relay and index transactions as usual.

Phase 2 is expected to be a consensus soft fork and must be specified with full backwards-compatibility and activation analysis in a successor BIP.

==Security Considerations==

Phase 1 commitments provide publication and detectability, not script-level PQ enforcement.
Users must not interpret commitment publication alone as equivalent to consensus-enforced PQ signature validity.

Canonical encoding requirements are mandatory to avoid ambiguous parsing and commitment spoofing via non-standard script shapes.

For transaction-binding assurance, validators should verify that revealed PQ signatures are computed over the correct transaction sighash32 for the referenced input and hash type, then compare recomputed commitment32 against the tagged on-chain value.

==Reference Implementation==

Current reference behavior exists in libdogecoin components that:

* sign raw transaction inputs using existing <code>dogecoin_tx_sign_input(...)</code> secp/ECC authorization flow;
* derive matching PQC signing messages with <code>dogecoin_tx_sighash32(...)</code>;
* generate/verify Falcon-512, Dilithium2, and Raccoon-G-44 signatures over caller-provided message bytes;
* derive commitments from PQ verification material (<code>SHA256(pubkey || signature)</code>);
* append/extract canonical tagged commitments in transaction OP_RETURN outputs; and
* detect canonical commitments during SPV block scanning and emit deterministic commitment logs;
* perform on-chain PQC commitment validation by extracting public key and signature from carrier scriptSig and recomputing SHA256(pk || sig); and
* log PQC verification material details (pk_len, sig_len, pk/sig hex prefixes) for diagnostic and audit workflows.

Current CLI wiring reflects this implementation model:

* <code>such -c tx_sighash32</code> derives transaction-bound digest bytes for a selected input;
* <code>such -c pqc_carrier_redeemscript</code>, <code>pqc_carrier_scriptpubkey</code>, <code>pqc_carrier_mkpart</code>, and <code>pqc_carrier_parsepart</code> are the canonical commands to build and inspect P2SH carrier payloads;
* <code>such -c falcon_sign</code> / <code>dilithium2_sign</code> / <code>raccoong_sign</code> accept message bytes via <code>-x</code> (including tx_sighash32 hex);
* <code>such -c falcon_commit</code> / <code>dilithium2_commit</code> / <code>raccoong_commit</code> derive commitment32 from public key + signature;
* <code>such -c falcon_add_commit_tx</code> / <code>dilithium2_add_commit_tx</code> / <code>raccoong_add_commit_tx</code> attach canonical tagged commitments to raw tx outputs;
* <code>such -c falcon_add_commit_and_carrier_tx</code> / <code>dilithium2_add_commit_and_carrier_tx</code> / <code>raccoong_add_commit_and_carrier_tx</code> attach both the OP_RETURN commitment and P2SH carrier outputs in a single operation; and
* <code>such -c raccoong_hd_derive</code> / <code>raccoong_hd_derive_pub</code> expose HD derivation behavior used for wallet path modeling.

Current end-to-end script behavior is aligned across mainnet and testnet flows:

* commitment-only mode (<code>CARRIER_ENABLED=0</code>): publishes OP_RETURN commitment only, no P2SH carrier outputs;
* carrier mode (<code>CARRIER_ENABLED=1</code>): publishes OP_RETURN commitment and creates P2SH carrier outputs in TX_C, then reveals full PQ verification material in TX_R spending the carrier outputs;
* SPV scanning validates on-chain PQC commitments using carrier scriptSig data, logs pk_len/sig_len/prefix details; and
* all transaction change outputs are sent back to the same funded address to enable chained testing.

==Mainnet Examples==

The following examples are from confirmed mainnet transactions demonstrating Phase 1 PQC commitment publication and SPV validation.

===Falcon-512 Carrier Mode (TX_C + TX_R)===

Commitment transaction (TX_C) with OP_RETURN commitment and P2SH carrier output (cascade run 2026-04-20):

<source>
TX_C txid:   f26940627dad32d5f86c1b17f9be96bf413dbe78b181721b73677d6fe7bd81ed
Block:       6173895 (mainnet, confirmed 2026-04-20)
Funded addr: DDMpdcTrWnZT38tRMebbYzCSAgLSnVMqvr

Outputs:
  vout 0: change → DDMpdcTrWnZT38tRMebbYzCSAgLSnVMqvr
  vout 1: OP_RETURN 6a24 464c4331 e780b663d19966bc8f4ca355fb61bdf7d6b66885e8a75a212bd368a6fb0dcac2
  vout 2: 1.0 DOGE → A6bAFnGqeKDiYk9dwkLqJSYX96ECHZ2f3q (P2SH carrier)
</source>

Reveal transaction (TX_R) spending the P2SH carrier output:

<source>
TX_R txid:   a65bbc366c3c670a8b5c57a205db818365e8b9cb955683eec2f171f6d4c52ff5
Block:       6173895 (mainnet, confirmed 2026-04-20)
</source>

SPV validation log showing commitment detection and Phase 2 PQC signature verification:

<source>
[falcon-commit] Pending at height=6173895 txpos=42 commit=e780b663d19966bc8f4ca355fb61bdf7d6b66885e8a75a212bd368a6fb0dcac2 source=op_return
[falcon-commit] Valid at height=6173895 txpos=50 commit=e780b663d19966bc8f4ca355fb61bdf7d6b66885e8a75a212bd368a6fb0dcac2 carrier_vin=0 source=carrier_scriptsig matched_txc_txpos=42 pk_len=897 sig_len=655 pk_prefix=0978c210806a874a28557a233283faba sig_prefix=39cd6f5e4151d353a21d07702c2526ff txr_txid=a65bbc366c3c670a8b5c57a205db818365e8b9cb955683eec2f171f6d4c52ff5
[falcon-commit] PQC signature verification PASSED at height=6173895 txpos=50 sighash=b13fc8828d8855d6c7870a68d98611d73ba93846a188bf6a764c5cbbf5673c32
[falcon-commit] Reveal validated: TX_R=a65bbc366c3c670a8b5c57a205db818365e8b9cb955683eec2f171f6d4c52ff5 commit=e780b663d19966bc8f4ca355fb61bdf7d6b66885e8a75a212bd368a6fb0dcac2 pk_len=897 sig_len=655 height=6173895
</source>

===Dilithium2 Carrier Mode (TX_C + TX_R)===

Commitment transaction (TX_C) with OP_RETURN commitment and P2SH carrier outputs (cascade run 2026-04-20):

<source>
TX_C txid:   822044a82f070da8d9d4a7c6e6e26359b50300b5ee1020c10fe0c76a11b7c933
Block:       6173897 (mainnet, confirmed 2026-04-20)
Funded addr: DDMpdcTrWnZT38tRMebbYzCSAgLSnVMqvr

Outputs:
  vout 0: change → DDMpdcTrWnZT38tRMebbYzCSAgLSnVMqvr
  vout 1: OP_RETURN 6a24 44494c32 f8dda582556e73e4abd62f6f69354faebed920100bec13944516ffea226c99ca
  vout 2–4: 1.0 DOGE each → A6bAFnGqeKDiYk9dwkLqJSYX96ECHZ2f3q (P2SH carrier, 3 parts)
</source>

Reveal transaction (TX_R) spending all three P2SH carrier outputs:

<source>
TX_R txid:   7e36376ad9124a89788557f556b4138e2a0ad110158e0284461a345e83ad5eaa
Block:       6173902 (mainnet, confirmed 2026-04-20)
</source>

SPV validation log showing commitment detection and Phase 2 PQC signature verification:

<source>
[dilithium-commit] Pending at height=6173897 txpos=16 commit=f8dda582556e73e4abd62f6f69354faebed920100bec13944516ffea226c99ca source=op_return
[dilithium-commit] Valid at height=6173902 txpos=11 commit=f8dda582556e73e4abd62f6f69354faebed920100bec13944516ffea226c99ca carrier_vin=0 source=carrier_scriptsig matched_txc_txpos=16 pk_len=1312 sig_len=2420 pk_prefix=e3fbad9d3c6daac8b9d2fabe0392ae5f sig_prefix=a3a936b6aebb20ce42aa73f13c9349a4 txr_txid=7e36376ad9124a89788557f556b4138e2a0ad110158e0284461a345e83ad5eaa
[dilithium-commit] PQC signature verification PASSED at height=6173902 txpos=11 sighash=247b35092bd91541a6dee7b7b7ea89ab4ec153eaca26a2624ab411f01b42e99a
[dilithium-commit] Reveal validated: TX_R=7e36376ad9124a89788557f556b4138e2a0ad110158e0284461a345e83ad5eaa commit=f8dda582556e73e4abd62f6f69354faebed920100bec13944516ffea226c99ca pk_len=1312 sig_len=2420 height=6173902
</source>

===Raccoon-G-44 Carrier Mode (TX_C + TX_R)===

====Run 1 — TX_C confirmed; TX_R not confirmed (insufficient fee)====

Commitment transaction (TX_C, Run 1) with OP_RETURN commitment and 24 P2SH carrier outputs (2026-04-20):

<source>
TX_C txid:   b6e065cbb0b42166a3fa0708c664df4a4a726e4b51ec47541634117dc7477c04
Block:       confirmed mainnet 2026-04-20
Funded addr: DDMpdcTrWnZT38tRMebbYzCSAgLSnVMqvr
Commitment:  4f1f783ea83ca3686886ad3e89232e19504dba5500f5d1f1f4c2c3fa253386e6

Outputs:
  vout 0: change → DDMpdcTrWnZT38tRMebbYzCSAgLSnVMqvr
  vout 1: OP_RETURN 6a24 52434734 4f1f783ea83ca3686886ad3e89232e19504dba5500f5d1f1f4c2c3fa253386e6
  vout 2–25: 0.1 DOGE each → A6bAFnGqeKDiYk9dwkLqJSYX96ECHZ2f3q (P2SH carrier, 24 parts)
</source>

Reveal transaction (TX_R, Run 1):

<source>
TX_R txid:   01a4461de63c21cdeb375c2ffd0c31f07ac9f523654abf09f4e3e56d15ad0258
Status:      broadcast 2026-04-20; not confirmed (TX_R fee insufficient for ~39 KB transaction)
</source>

====Run 2 — TX_C and TX_R broadcast with 1 DOGE fee (2026-04-20)====

The Run 1 TX_R was not confirmed due to an insufficient relay fee.  Run 2 repeats the end-to-end
using the same WIF/address, spending the cascade change output (vout 0) of the Run 1 TX_C as input,
and sets TX_R fee to 1.0 DOGE (100000000 koinu) for the ~39 KB transaction.

Commitment transaction (TX_C, Run 2) with OP_RETURN commitment and 24 P2SH carrier outputs:

<source>
TX_C txid:   913f89a45debf6951c70253e55c75bda8e53ff9521d08670ed2355006252a30d
Input UTXO:  b6e065cbb0b42166a3fa0708c664df4a4a726e4b51ec47541634117dc7477c04:0 (cascade change)
Status:      broadcast to mainnet mempool 2026-04-20
Funded addr: DDMpdcTrWnZT38tRMebbYzCSAgLSnVMqvr
Commitment:  7dd12252cd2b388c117d5eb0c26d4d518ce077d07b8100060fbc3e604e0531c8

Outputs:
  vout 0:  change → DDMpdcTrWnZT38tRMebbYzCSAgLSnVMqvr
  vout 1:  OP_RETURN 6a24 52434734 7dd12252cd2b388c117d5eb0c26d4d518ce077d07b8100060fbc3e604e0531c8
  vout 2–25: 0.5 DOGE each → A6bAFnGqeKDiYk9dwkLqJSYX96ECHZ2f3q (P2SH carrier, 24 parts)
</source>

Reveal transaction (TX_R, Run 2, ~39 KB, spending all 24 P2SH carrier outputs):

<source>
TX_R txid:   9f3b3b49bc156db86b92553b8cf80ee4240d96e2d7fc38712e6551900642020e
Status:      broadcast to mainnet mempool 2026-04-20
TX_R fee:    1.0 DOGE (100000000 koinu) — adequate for ~39 KB at ≥0.001 DOGE/kB relay rate
pk_len:      16144 (Raccoon-G-44 public key)
sig_len:     20768 (Raccoon-G-44 signature)
part_total:  24 carrier vins (RCG4FULL tag)
Off-chain verification: PASSED (signature valid; SHA256(pk||sig) matches TX_C OP_RETURN commitment)
</source>

Note: The Raccoon-G-44 TX_R fee must be at least 1.0 DOGE (100000000 koinu) for reliable miner inclusion given the ~39 KB transaction size.

===SPV Commitment Validation Summary===

The SPV scanner detected and validated the following PQC commitments during mainnet block scan (cascade run 2026-04-20):

<source>
Height   TxPos  Algorithm     Source              Commitment (first 16 hex)        Details
6173849  17     Falcon-512    op_return_only      51a04c03e2f542b6...
6173849  20     Falcon-512    carrier_scriptsig   51a04c03e2f542b6...              (pk_len=897, sig_len=654, PASSED)
6173855  21     Dilithium2    op_return_only      ca9002ea6cd424d9...
6173866  28     Dilithium2    op_return_only      e86bf13eb2aa3037...
6173871  20     Dilithium2    carrier_scriptsig   e86bf13eb2aa3037...              (pk_len=1312, sig_len=2420, PASSED)
6173895  42     Falcon-512    op_return_only      e780b663d19966bc...
6173895  50     Falcon-512    carrier_scriptsig   e780b663d19966bc...              (pk_len=897, sig_len=655, PASSED)
6173897  16     Dilithium2    op_return_only      f8dda58255...
6173902  11     Dilithium2    carrier_scriptsig   f8dda58255...                    (pk_len=1312, sig_len=2420, PASSED)
pending  -      Raccoon-G-44  off_chain_verify    7dd12252cd2b388c...              (pk_len=16144, sig_len=20768, PASSED, TX_R=9f3b3b49bc156db86b92553b8cf80ee4240d96e2d7fc38712e6551900642020e)
</source>

Note: Validated carrier_scriptsig entries demonstrate the two-transaction carrier pattern (TX_C + TX_R) with full Phase 2 PQC signature verification PASSED for Falcon-512 and Dilithium2. The Raccoon-G-44 entry shows off-chain verification (SHA256(pk||sig) matches TX_C OP_RETURN commitment; SPV node scan pending TX_R confirmation).

==Deployment==

Phase 1 can be deployed immediately in wallets, tooling, and SPV infrastructure without consensus change.

Phase 2 requires a separate consensus-track proposal and activation plan.

==Acknowledgements==

Thanks to the broader Bitcoin and Dogecoin post-quantum research community, including prior art discussions such as BIP 360.
